# Syntax

## Keywords
There are 29 keywords in SPL: \
`as` `assert` `break` `case` `class` 
`cond` `const` `continue` `default` `else` 
`fallthrough` `false` `fn` `for` `if` 
`import` `in` `lambda` `namespace` `new` 
`null` `return` `super` `switch` `this`
`true` `var` `while` `yield`

## Basic Syntax

An SPL source code file is formed by blocks, statements, and expressions.

### End Of Line
In SPL, a line must be terminated by an EOL character `;`. Otherwise, it might cause error.

### Comments
Any code after symbol `//` in that line would be omitted by SPL.
For example, 
```
code will be executed;  // comment will not be executed.
```

## Blocks
Blocks are collections of statements or expressions.\
Normally, code blocks do not evaluate to anything.

## Statements
Statements do not evaluate to any result. They only create side effects that change some status of the environment.

* ### Declaration
A declaration creates a variable in the scope that it belongs. \
A declaration is made by keywords `var` or `const`. Examples:
```
var a;
const b;
```
Where `var` defines a variable, `const` defines a constant variable. \
Variables defined using `var` can be later modified, while the ones defined using `const` can only be assigned once.

* ### Conditional Statement
Conditional statements

* ### Switch-Case Statement
Switch-case statements have the following syntax: \
```
switch expression {
    case condition1 {
        ...
    }
    case condition2 {
        ...
    }
    ...
    default {  // default case is optional.
        ...
    }
}
```
In each case, the statement checks whether `expression == condtion`. If `==` evaluates `true` in that condition, 
then its body gets executed. The statement will exit if any case block is executed unless there is a `fallthrough`
statement in that case block. \
Conditions of a switch statement are checked sequentially. A `fallthrough` indicates continuing to check the next
condition after the current case until another condition is met. \
If none of the conditions is met, the `default` block is executed, then the switch statement exits.

* ### Cond-Case Statement
Cond-case statements are just syntax sugar for switch-case statements. \
The syntax is:
```
cond {
    case booleanExpression1 {
        ... 
    }
    case booleanExpression2 {
        ...
    }
    ...
    default {  // default case is optional.
        ...
    }
}
```

Cond-case statement `cond { ... }` is equivalent to `switch true { ... }`

## Expressions
Expressions output some value.

* ### Assignment
Assignments in SPL are expressions. It assigns the value on the right side to its left side, then returns the value. \
For example,
```
var x;
var y = (x = 3);  // or even y = x = 3
```
sets both `x`, `y` to 3.

* ### Binary Operator
A binary operator takes two expressions as its left and right operands. \
There are four types of binary operators, arithmetic, logic, bitwise, and assignment.

* #### Arithmetic operator
An arithmetic binary operator takes two operands and returns a value. The type of the returning value is probably the
type of one of its operand. \
Arithmetic operators list:
```
+, -, *, /, %
```

* #### Logical operator
A logical binary operator takes two operands and returns a boolean value. \
Logical operators list:
```
==, !=, >, <, >=, <=, and, or, is, is not
```

* #### Bitwise operator
A bitwise operator takes two `int` as operands and returns an `int`. \
Bitwise operators list:
```
>>, >>>, <<, &, |, ^
```

* #### Assignment operator
Assignment operators are the syntax sugar of combining an arithmetic or a bitwise operator with an assignment. \
All Arithmetic and bitwise operators can combine with a `=` to form an assignment operator. This operator does the 
operation between its left and right operands then assign the result value to the left. \
For example, `a += 2` is equivalent to `a = a + 2`.
